---
title: 'OxCaml, Oxidized!'
date: 2025-06-18
tags:
  - scala
  - news
  - sysprog
src: https://oxcaml.org/
---

Jane Street open sourceed their production compiler for OCaml[^oxcaml][^gh:oxcaml], which focuses on performance and correctness. It is called OxCaml, a fast-moving set of extensions to the OCaml programming language.

Highlights:

> OxCaml’s primary design goals are:
>
> - to provide **safe, convenient, predictable** control over performance-critical aspects of program behavior
> - but **only where you need it**,
> - and ... **in OCaml**!
>
> OxCaml's extensions
>
> Our extensions can be roughly organized into a few areas:
>
> - Fearless concurrency: Writing correct concurrent programs is notoriously difficult. OxCaml includes additions to the type system to statically rule out data races.
> - Layouts: OxCaml lets programmers specify the way their data is laid out in memory. It also provides native access to SIMD processor extensions.
> - Control over allocation: OxCaml gives programmers tools to control allocations, reducing GC pressure and making programs more cache efficient and deterministic.
> - Quality of life: OxCaml also contains some extensions that aren’t specifically about systems programming, but which we’ve found helpful in our day-to-day work

I'm so admired as a Scala Native coder. The good news is that I've been thinking about similar things for Scala Native for a long time. The bad news is that I don’t have the necessary resources or free time. However, I think OxCaml is a great project to follow and learn from.

[^oxcaml]: [OxCaml](https://oxcaml.org/): OCaml - Oxidized!
[^gh:oxcaml]: [oxcaml/oxcaml](https://github.com/oxcaml/oxcaml): OCaml - Oxidized!
