## 2025-02-14

Aha, Saint Valentine Day. Not very romantic, after few days of work, I found the HTTP client introduced since Java 11 is hevaily based on the `CompletableFuture` API, which is not supported by Scala Native 0.5.6 yet.

The lucky news is [@WojciechMazur](https://github.com/WojciechMazur) [^scala-native-pr-4117] has already merged a `CompletableFuture` shim module for Scala Native very recently (Dec 16, 2024), but it's not released yet until Scala Native 0.5.7.

After confirming the release date of Scala Native 0.5.7, it may be released in the next few weeks. Lucky dog. Now it's romantic again.

The next big problem is JDK is liscensed under GPLv2. That's means I cannot copy any test cases directly from the JDK source code, which is a big problem for me. As software enginering, the implmentation is not the most important part, but the test cases are. I need to write my own test cases to ensure the implementation is correct.

And what's suprised me is that the Scala Native community is such kind that give me a lot of helps and supports[^jd557-comment][^LeeTibbert-comment]. I have received many useful suggestions and feedback from the community members, which is very encouraging. I will keep working on this project and try to make it better.

[^scala-native-pr-4117]: [Port `java.util.concurrent.CompletableFuture` #4117](https://github.com/scala-native/scala-native/pull/4117)
[^jd557-comment]: [@JD557's kind comment](https://github.com/scala-native/scala-native/issues/4104#issuecomment-2659102369)
[^LeeTibbert-comment]: [@LeeTibbert's kind comment](https://github.com/scala-native/scala-native/issues/4104#issuecomment-2659670888)
