## 2025-06-15

Yet another day to fight with

> ```console
> scala.scalanative.linker.LinkingException: Unreachable symbols found after classloading run. It can happen when using dependencies not cross-compiled for Scala Native or not yet ported JDK definitions.
> ```

For this time, it's not about missing classes or methods, but rather a problem with mutable and immutable collections.

The `java.collection` and `java.util` modules keep evolving. As a result, `java.util.List.of` and `java.util.Map.of` factory methods were introduced since Java 9. These two methods create immutable `List` and `Map` instances, respectively. However, they still return the **mutable** `List` and `Map` interfaces, which is very confusing. Not only will the IDE and compiler not warn you, but the IDE will even proactively provide `add` / `remove` autocompletion suggestions. 😅 It's still fine here. At least these behaviors are documented, so I was able to quickly find out the reasons when my tests failed.

I haven't had much luck creating and manipulating `byte[]` type and `ByteBuffer` type.

```scala
// pesudo code
val buf = ByteBuffer.allocate(allocSize);
val chunkSize = 1024
val pos = buf.position()
while (!is.hasRemaining()) {
  val remining = upstreamBuf.remaining()
  val readSize = math.min(remining, chunkSize)
  buf.put(is.readNBytes(chunkSize))
}
```

I found that I can't write bytes into a fixed-size `ByteBuffer` or fill it chunk by chunk as I expected. The only way that works is to write all the bytes into the ByteBuffer at once; otherwise, the program crashes.

```scala
val buf = ByteBuffer.wrap(is.readNBytes(allocSize))
```

It's simpler, more elegant, and done in an FP style -- I really like that. But what if the buffer size is too larger to overflow the memory? Admittedly, I didn't try to optimize it now, after all, _premature optimization is the root of all evil_.

What confused me was that both problems just showed up as `scala.scalanative.linker.LinkingException: Unreachable symbols found after classloading run.`, which is pretty misleading and odd.
