## 2025-06-04

After working on this for a few days, I've finished all the major class, interface and method signatures of

- `HttpClient`
- `HttpRequest`
- `HttpResponse`
- `WebSocket`

just as outlined in the JDK docs -- [HTTP Client and WebSocket APIs](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/24/docs/api/java.net.http/java/net/http/package-summary.html) and cross compared with [OpenJDK src](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk).

Honestly, thanks to GitHub Copilot, I can write boilerplate codes much faster than I expected. GitHub Copilot is really a great tool for this kind of work, especially when you aren't familiar with the language or the API. All I need to do is verify the correctness of the signatures, and do some style adjustments.

Then I ran into my first major problem -- fight with the missing implementations of JDK API in Scala Native.

```
[153/153, 1 failed] ============================== scala-native-http[].test ============================== 7s
1 tasks failed
scala-native-http[3.3.4].test.nativeLink scala.scalanative.linker.LinkingException: Unreachable symbols found after classloading run. It can happen when using dependencies not cross-compiled for Scala Native or not yet ported JDK definitions.
```

To identify which classes and methods are missing, I have to repeatedly compile the project, comment out problematic code, and try again, almost like doing a binary search, until it finally compiles successfully. It's a tedious and time-consuming process.

> Is there any way to efficiently inform users about which classes and methods are missing? Maybe there are tools out there that I just don't know about, or perhaps no such tools exist at all.

Finally, I found out all the missing classes that are strictly required by `java.net.http` module. I categorized them into two groups:

1. Could be vendored by dependencies
   - [x] `java.time.Duration`
     - Provided by [cquiroz/scala-java-time](https://github.com/cquiroz/scala-java-time)
   - [x] `java.util.Locale`
     - Provided by [cquiroz/scala-java-locales](https://github.com/cquiroz/scala-java-locales)
   - [ ] `javax.net.ssl.SSLContext`
     - No implementation yet
     - May try to implement it in the future on upstream project [lolgab/scala-native-crypto](https://github.com/lolgab/scala-native-crypto)
     - The good news is I could make HTTP 1.1 work first without it.
2. Will try to include in `scala-native-java-http` package
   - [x] `java.net.Proxy`
   - [x] `java.net.ProxySelector`
     - The first two are simple and straightforward.
   - [ ] `java.net.Authenticator`
   - [ ] `java.net.CookieHandler`
     - [@domaspoliakas](https://github.com/domaspoliakas) is working on it
     - [scala-native/scala-native - HttpCookie and its tests #3927](https://github.com/scala-native/scala-native/pull/3927)
     - but it's not merged yet
     - I may try to vendor it in current project if it's still not merged
